README.md, before:

# Django-react-tailwindcss

![Django-react-tailwindcss hello world page](https://i.imgur.com/yIAMkqy.png)

Opinionated boilerplate for starting a Django project together with React front-end library and TailwindCSS css framework.

## Reasoning

This repo is a boilerplate for quickly creating new websites using Django framework. It acknowledges the power of React front-end libray and client-side rendering without neglecting the usefulness of Django server-side rendering, Django template language (DTL), Jinja2 and the rest of its ecosystem.

## Requirements

- Yarn or NPM package managers
- NodeJS >= 14
- Python >= 3.6
- Pipenv package manager

## Tooling

- Yarn (or NPM) - NodeJS package manager
- Pipenv - Python package manager
- Django framework
- React front-end library
- Webpack JavaScript module bundler
- Babel JavaScript compiler
- TailwindCSS css framework
- Clean-CSS css optimizer

## Concepts

- The power of React with Django "batteries included philosophy" framework.

- Static files (generated by build tools or added manually) live in the static directory. (e.g., images, fonts, css and js files bundled (or not) by webpack)

- Files that needs to be pre-processed live under `assets` directory. (e.g., `assets/styles/tailwind.css` and `assets/js/index.js`)

## Installing

- Do the project scaffolding with:

    ```bash
    $ npx degit jvcarli/django-react-tailwindcss myproject
    ```

  Alternatively,  you can use `$ git clone https://github.com/jvcarli/django-react-tailwindcss` and remove the `.git` directory.

- Inside the project root directory install node **and** python dependencies with:

  ```bash
  $ yarn
  ```

  **Note:** Yarn will install node dependencies as usually and right after run a script that starts a python virtual environment and install python dependencies.

  This command **will** fail if you don't have `pipenv` installed. See **caveats** for more info.

- **SECURITY**

  After cloning and installing the dependencies run `bootstrap.sh` script. It's just a simple bash script that runs a django internal command that regenerates Django SECRET_KEY (it must be **UNIQUE** for every project.). 

  **You won't be able to run django server if you don't have a SECRET_KEY. This is by design. Remember to keep the secret key used in production secret. The key generated by this script is meant to be only used in a development enviroment, so it can be shared without any problems.**

  It only needs to be run once, it can be deleted after.

  ```bash
  $ ./bootstrap.sh
  ```

- Start Django server with:

  ```bash
  $ yarn dev
  ```

  You should be able to see a hello world page at http://localhost:8000/

- Have fun!

## Caveats

**ATTENTION:** `$ yarn` and `$ yarn dev` use `pipenv` in the background.

If you **DO WISH** to use `pip` or any other python package manager edit `package.json` file by removing `pipenv` commands
from `prepare` and `dev` scripts. **Remember** to **always** source your python virtual environment **before** running `$ yarn dev` and to install the dependencies stated in Pipfile.

`bootstrap.sh` runs `pipenv run` in the background too, so you'll need to remove `pipenv run` from the script and update it accordingly your python pacakge manager.

Commit message:

[INTERNAL] Update README.md adding poetry comments

README.md, after:

# Django-react-tailwindcss

![Django-react-tailwindcss hello world page](https://i.imgur.com/yIAMkqy.png)

Opinionated boilerplate for starting a Django project together with React front-end library and TailwindCSS css framework.

## Reasoning

This repo is a boilerplate for quickly creating new websites using Django framework. It acknowledges the power of React front-end libray and client-side rendering without neglecting the usefulness of Django server-side rendering, Django template language (DTL), Jinja2 and the rest of its ecosystem.

## Requirements

- Yarn or NPM package managers
- NodeJS >= 14
- Python >= 3.6
- Poetry package manager

## Tooling

- Yarn (or NPM) - NodeJS package manager
- Poetry - Python package manager
- Django framework
- React front-end library
- Webpack JavaScript module bundler
- Babel JavaScript compiler
- TailwindCSS css framework
- Clean-CSS css optimizer

## Concepts

- The power of React with Django "batteries included philosophy" framework.

- Static files (generated by build tools or added manually) live in the static directory. (e.g., images, fonts, css and js files bundled (or not) by webpack)

- Files that needs to be pre-processed live under `assets` directory. (e.g., `assets/css/tailwind.css` and files under `assets/components`)

## Installing

- Do the project scaffolding with:

    ```bash
    $ npx degit jvcarli/django-react-tailwindcss myproject
    ```

  Alternatively,  you can use `$ git clone https://github.com/jvcarli/django-react-tailwindcss` and remove the `.git` directory.

- Inside the project root directory install node **and** python dependencies with:

  ```bash
  $ yarn
  ```

  **Note:** Yarn will install node dependencies as usually and right after run a script that starts a python virtual environment and install python dependencies.

  This command **will** fail if you don't have `poetry` installed. See **caveats** for more info.

- **SECURITY**

  After cloning and installing the dependencies run `bootstrap.sh` script. It's just a simple bash script that runs a django internal command that regenerates Django SECRET_KEY (it must be **UNIQUE** for every project.). 

  **You won't be able to run django server if you don't have a SECRET_KEY. This is by design. Remember to keep the secret key used in production secret. The key generated by this script is meant to be only used in a development enviroment, so it can be shared without any problems.**

  It only needs to be run once, it can be deleted after.

  ```bash
  $ ./bootstrap.sh
  ```

- Start Django server with:

  ```bash
  $ yarn dev
  ```

  You should be able to see a hello world page at http://localhost:8000/

- Have fun!

## Caveats

**ATTENTION:** `$ yarn` and `$ yarn dev` use `poetry` cli in the background.

If you **DO WISH** to use `pip` or any other python package manager edit `package.json` file by removing `poetry` commands
from `prepare` and `dev` scripts. **Remember** to **always** source your python virtual environment **before** running `$ yarn dev` and to install the dependencies stated in pyproject.toml .

`bootstrap.sh` runs `poetry` in the background too, so you'll need to remove `poetry run` from the script and update it accordingly your python pacakge manager.
