# Django-react-tailwind

*Slightly* opiniated boilerplate for starting a Django project together with React front-end library and TailwindCSS CSS framework.

## Reasoning

Just a boilerplate for quickly creating new projects. You can change yarn with npm if you wish.
TailwindCSS and React are not mandatory and you can use Django framework freely for working both on the front or the backend.

## Requirements

* NodeJS >=14
* Python 3.X 
* Pipenv installed 

**ATENTION:** `$ yarn dev` runs : `$ pipenv run python manage.py runserver` in the background. If you **DO WISH** to use pip or any other python package manager change remove `pipenv run` from `$ pipenv run python run manage.py runserver` and remember to always source your python virtual environment **before** running `$ yarn dev`


## Installing 

``` bash
$ git clone REPO LINK
```

**SECURITY:**
Inside the project root run `bootstrap.sh` script. It's just a simple bash script that runs a django internal command that regenerates SECRET_KEY (it must be **UNIQUE** for every project.). It only needs to be run one time, this script can be deleted after.

``` bash
$ ./bootstrap.sh 
```

## Tooling

* Yarn - NodeJS package manager
* Pipenv - Python package manager 
* Django for the backend (or the frontend too, as you wish)
* React front-end library
* Webpack JS module bundler
* TailwindCSS CSS framework

## Concepts

* Static files (generated or not) lives in the static directory. Examples of generated files: css files generated by tailwindcss, cleancss and webpack. Non generated files: images and any other kind of static asset.
